# Demand-Driven Asset Reutilization Analytics

Manufacturers have long benefited from reusing returned products and parts. This benevolent approach can minimize cost and help the manufacturer to play a role in sustaining the environment, something which is of utmost importance these days because of growing environmental concerns. Reuse of returned parts and products aids environment sustainability because doing so helps reduce the use of raw materials, eliminate energy use to produce new parts, and minimize waste materials. However, handling returns effectively and efficiently can be difficult if the processes do not provide the visibility that is necessary to track, manage, and re-use the returns. This paper applies advanced analytics on procurement data to increase reutilization in the new build by optimizing Equal-to-New (ETN) parts return. This will reduce ‘the spend’ on new buy parts for building new product units. The process involves forecasting and matching returns supply to demand for the new build. Complexity in the process is the forecasting and matching while making sure a reutilization engineering process is available. Also, this will identify high demand/value/yield parts for development engineering to focus on. Reutilization of returns is good for the environment. The higher the quantity of ETN and certified service parts (CSP) that are recovered and reused, the better the result is for the environment. So another major goal of this work is to minimize the solid waste volume that is disposed of from scrapped parts. Analytics has been applied on different levels to enhance the optimization process including a forecast of upgraded parts. Machine Learning algorithms are used to build an automated infrastructure that can support the transformation of ETN parts utilization in the procurement parts planning process. This system incorporates returns forecast in the planning cycle to reduce suppliers' liability from 9 weeks to 12 months planning cycle, e.g., reduce 5\% of 10 million US dollars liability.

This system is an implementation of 
<a href="https://www.researchgate.net/publication/340527804_Demand-Driven_Asset_Reutilization_Analytics">Ali, A. R, and Lin, P. In Proceedings of the 2nd ASE BIGDATA/SOCIALCOM/CYBERSECURITY Conference, ASE, Stanford, CA, May 2014. </a>
